# UNIVERSAL-SHIFT-REGISTER

Introduction : A register that is capable of transferring data in only one direction is called a unidirectional shift register, whereas the register that is capable of transferring data in both left and right direction is called a bi-directional shift register. Now if the register has both the shift-right and shift-left capabilities, along with the necessary input and output terminals for parallel transfer, then it is called a shift register with parallel load or ‘Universal shift register’. 

Objective : Designing  a general-purpose register capable of performing three operations : shift-right, shift-left and parallel-loading.

Methodology : The Artix-7 Basys3 FPGA board, which is a sponsored board by Xilinx and required to be hard-coded using the Xilinx Vivado software. In order to adjust the clock frequency of the digital clock with that of the system clock, we are devising the concept of the slow clock. The code has many subparts, including separate module defined for input, output and the Seven segment display. An XDC constraint file is also defined for specifying port locations of the FPGA board. The code is first simulated, then bitstream is generated and flashed in the FPGA board.

Technical Aspects : The 16 switches are used for taking inputs in binary format, i.e., every 4 switches represent a single-digit decimal number in binary format. The board has 4 seven-segment display, which displays the current data stored in the register in decimal format. The sixteen LEDs denote the final 4 digit output in binary format, i.e., every 4 switches represent a single-digit decimal number in binary format. There a 5 debouncing push-buttons, which have very specifc functions. The down button is used for taking the input supplied by switches into the register. The left and right buttons are used for continuous left-shifting and right-shifting, respectively at the rate of 1shift/sec. The central button is used for pausing the shifting inside the registers and holding th current value. The up button is used for taking the outputs from the registers and displaying them via LEDs. The best part of the design is that input channel, the output channels and the registers are capable of holding different sets of data at the same time as well as simultaneous same data, because the transfer of data from one mode to another works only after pressing the specific push-button.
